Udacity intro to descriptive statistics 

The researcher found a correlation between listening to classical music and performance 
in school, then mistakenly concluded that listening to classical music caused better 
performance in school. Correlation does not imply causation!

This is because lurking variables can result in a correlation between two variables that 
are not causally related.

Independent variable similar to predictor variable, although predictor that term tends to 
be used when we are talking about a factor that we do not manipulate, but may help our 
predictions.

Standardising: 

Take spread out distribution
Convert to standard normal distribution with mean (mu) 0 and s.d. 1 
	- do this by converting to z scores (value X - mean)/s.d. 
Then using the z score formula you can work out where in the standard normal distribution 
new values lie and therefore what probability they have of occurring... 
Can also convert from Z score back to starting values, the position in the distribution 
should be unchanged however. 

Once have probability density function, can use calculus to find area under the curve 
between any two values (z scores) Table for standard normal dist gives value for area less
than z score 

 	
Sample means and central limit theorem. 

NO MATTER WHAT THE POPULATION DISTRIBUTION LOOKED LIKE, if we take a series of random 
samples of sufficient size and volume, and calculated their means, the distribution of 
the sample means would be approximately normal. With standard deviation = sigma (sd of pop) 
divided by the sqrt of sample size n. sigma/sqrt(n) which = Standard Error term SE 

If taking samples of size 1 then SE = sigma/sqrt(1), which = sigma. We are essentially just
replicating our actual population by taking sample of 1. 

samples of size 2 = normal distribution 

Increasing sample size from 2 will make the distribution of sample means skinnier, as 
the denominator sqrt(n) will increase as n increases, making the impact of standard deviation
numerator smaller 

The relationship between n and reduction in sampling error is known 
	- we have to quadruple n to reduce standard error from samples by half 
	
#inferential statistics continued in .r file 

Need to remember key concepts from lesson 6: 
Definitions of Z score, standard deviation, sampling distribution, that standard error = 
the standard deviation of the sampling distribution. 
	